Add bogus caselaw incident (#84)
badnessdotai/catalog: catalog/chatgpt-lawyer-fake-cases.md

---
title: A lawyer used ChatGPT to prepare a court filing which cited several nonexistent cases
companies: ["OpenAI"]

> categories: ["Inaccuracy", "Overreliance"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories: ["Inaccuracies", "Overreliance"]
```

demonstrative: false
modalities: ["Chatbot"]
models: ["GPT-3.5"]
date: 2023-05-27
sources:
  - "https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/27/nyregion/avianca-airline-lawsuit-chatgpt.html"
---

A lawyer in New York, Steven A. Schwartz, mistakenly used falsified legal decisions provided by ChatGPT in a lawsuit against airline Avianca.

> Mr. Schwartz filed a brief in the case involving a man, Roberto Mata, claiming to be injured by a metal serving cart during a flight, but the decisions cited in the brief did not exist. After both the judge and Avianca's lawyers pointed out the issue, Schwartz admitted to using ChatGPT for his legal research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mr. Schwartz filed a brief in the case involving a man, Roberto Mata, who claimed to have been injured by a metal serving cart during a flight. However, the decisions cited in the brief did not exist. After both the judge and Avianca's lawyers pointed out the issue, Schwartz admitted to using ChatGPT for his legal research.
```

Schwartz expressed regret and said he will not use AI for legal research without absolute verification in the future.

> The issue has sparked debate among the legal profession on the use and verification of information provided by AI tools like ChatGPT. Judge P. Kevin Castel, noting this "unprecedented circumstance," scheduled a hearing to discuss potential sanctions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issue has sparked debate among those in the legal profession on the use and verification of information provided by AI tools like ChatGPT. Judge P. Kevin Castel, noting this "unprecedented circumstance," scheduled a hearing to discuss potential sanctions.
```
